you know moving right along because I'm
a little behind schedule at the moment
our net we have another talk coming up
um another person uh who has been a
close collaborator who Julia very
recently
um the wonderful Joey holder
and
um
Joey uh it's just so wonderful so
amazing and I love the projects that you
guys have been working on together the
shows that you've done which you know
we'll hear about in just a few minutes
and you know the current spur residency
that you're building together that has
just offered such an unbelievable
opportunity to Young Artists
um to experiment with with New Media
um to give a little bit of background
Joey's work raises philosophical
questions of our universe and things yet
unknown regarding the future of science
medicine biology and human machine
interactions working with scientific and
Technical experts she makes immersive
multimedia installations that explore
the limits of the human and how we
experience non-human natural and
technological forms mixing elements of
biology nanotechnology and natural
history against computer program
interfaces screensavers and measuring
devices she suggests the impermanence
and interchangeability of these
apparently contrasting and oppositional
worlds everything is a mutant and a
hybrid oh that's a that's such a cool
stuff to make
um connecting forms which have emerged
through our human taste culture and
Industrial processes she investigates
complex systems with dissolved Notions
of the natural and the artificial GM
products virtual biology and aquatic
creatures are incorporated into an
extended web challenging our perception
of evolution adaptation and change
um Joey's had so many incredible solo
shows most recently the Abyssal Seeker
show which was at 17 Gallery Samuel
Perez at Spring Health Aquatic Center in
London with Julia you were really
closely involved in
um and so many more uh we're going to
hear all about it in just a moment and
so with that I'm going to switch it over
to Joey
hello my name is Jerry holder and I'm an
artist a producer and mentor and
educator and based in Nottingham in the
UK
thank you so much for inviting me to do
the talk
um yeah it's an amazing lineup and yeah
really happy to be part of it
um so I'm going to talk about a few
different projects that I've been doing
over recent years and to so I'm going to
be playing a video throughout the talk
and that contains research images
um different screen grabs of websites
that I've made films and found images
all kind of mixed together and I like to
show my work in this kind of continual
flow because I see my work as this kind
of like
um even even the research and kind of
found out images as part of the process
and part of the work and part of this
kind of like constructing this uh this
kind of world which doesn't just exist
um as artworks inside galleries it's
very much like about how it spills out
and kind of becomes like a
big kind of constellatory network if you
like and that's that's for me where the
work resides not in not in Queen of Lake
separate sort of elements it's like how
it kind of like connects some layers and
and flows together across like
multi-faceted like platforms and and
multi-dimensional
um
uh in most dimensional ways
um so
and yeah I guess like the digital Realms
very much change the way that I think
about work
um
displayed on the screen is like various
different
um websites that I've created
um various different like Tumblr sites
and image blogs I have probably over 60
or so of these different sites and
the the internet is obviously like
completely
saturated
um by information and imagery and things
that have been made and it's almost like
I use that material as an artist and as
my community of like raw material I feel
like I don't need to make anything in
the world anymore
um because it feels like yeah everything
has been made and it's almost like
I'm just using that material
um and I feel like I'm just like just a
kind of like another interface or or
filter
um of that material and kind of
reconstituting it re recomposing it
collaging this stuff together and not
actually yeah not actually claiming that
I'm kind of like making anything new
so I guess like within my work I'm
dealing with
nature and the World At Large I mean I
see nature as
being pretty much everything in the
world so humans and what we make
included within that as well as all of
the animal and plant species and how
we're kind of interconnected into that
and within my work I often depict
um different creatures often choosing
quite weird and wonderful creatures
aquatic creatures insects
um and depicts them alongside our
human
kind of understanding of those creatures
so often I will depict different frames
of of references like like different
knowledge systems that we use to try to
understand these creatures so for
example I will often use
um scientific means of explaining these
creatures so I'll explain I'll kind of
show these natural forms alongside
scientific diagrams mappings
symbols
um
yeah different kind of like different
kind of systems and I really want to
kind of like reflect on how the systems
and the languages and the the things
that we kind of create as humans are
quite limiting in in understanding the
the world that we live in
and so often yeah I'll mix elements of
biology
nanotechnology Natural History against
like computer interfaces
screensavers measuring devices and
I guess make is to suggest the kind of
impermanence and interchangeability of
these apparently kind of contrasting
oppositional worlds and
I want to
describe the world
um because I think the world is a
constantly clean of like mutating and
transforming
um place it's not you know it's not
static
um
and I mean often
and I think often Within
very much the the modern project at the
moment it seems as if everything is
becoming like a branch of technology and
computer science and even life itself we
are attempting to
um to datify and to categorize in this
way and I think that this is extremely
dangerous way a limited way to to look
at life and it's impossible for us to be
able to to kind of like capture it
um with this project and so a lot of my
work yeah kind of like grapples with
this
um
yeah so I guess like I see each project
in each artwork very much as creating
like
fictional or maybe faction
um based on fact as well kind of
creating worlds and kind of constructive
environments that respond very much to
contemporary real world events in the
world around us and each of my artworks
I
kind of like considered like a set if
you like with different filmic and
narrative enough architectural
um visuals and sound elements and in
each each of those kind of like
constructions is is made like uniquely
for the kind of conceptual underpinning
of the project
and I've worked with lots of different
researchers and practitioners in my work
as well like um through conversations
and through workshopping together and
through creating work together and so
not just artists I've worked with
computational geneticists I've worked
with marine biologists behavioral
psychologists investitive journalists
and I've worked across like different
themes including future farming
synthetic biology and deep sea
ecosystems so like a couple of projects
and that I'm going to talk about
um Aussie Exquisite projects that I did
in 2016 where I collaborated with two
scientists one was a computational
biologist and the other was a marine
biologist looking at deep sea creatures
and for this project I was looking at
the data vacation of life itself and
particularly like biological genetic
data
and very much these days
um
it's almost as if like biologists think
of life as being able to be something
that can be programmed like a computer I
mean it's almost like DNA code is
thought about like computational code
um in the way that they
um talk about like how it can be
um manipulated in different parts of the
code
um cut out and then put into different
things to like reprogram organisms
and
again like I think that it's very
problematic and limiting to think about
life in this kind of like limiting way
and it was really interesting doing
these they're doing these projects and
having these conversations with these
scientists because it actually made me
realize
that there's so much again like there's
so much that we don't know about life
and about the world and one of the
things that I learned
um about genetic
um DNA is the scientists only know
I think it's less than three percent of
what the DNA codes for so the other 97
percent
they haven't got a clue
and like when you
um start researching
um these kind of like different
big biotech companies medical kind of
like organizations it seems like their
rhetoric is very much about like what
they what they can do and like these
kind of like big scientific
breakthroughs that they've made and
really focusing on that rather than
focusing actually like that still
because well you know there's relatively
a lot of stuff like that that isn't
known and that we still don't know
um
and
excuse me
so for this project I created like a
Sci-Fi kind of like scene of a
futuristic medical room and the audience
were at the very center if you like um
and they and there was life-size models
of high-tech Medical Imaging equipment
including like an MRI scanner CRM x-ray
machine
um genetic and genetic sequencing
machines
and I guess it like really explores the
promise of a network world and connected
genetic data directly and fluidly to
biomedical equipment in order to carry
out medical procedures by computers
and I imagine this this medical room to
completely be completely automized and
so it was being fed information from a
diverse sort of genetic Data Bank which
was sampling different specimens from
humans to plants to animals and the kind
of like furthest regions of the natural
world
and it was a place where I imagined
synthetic biology had been fully
realized and applied to human to human
health and evolution and increase our
life expectancy uh and and improve our
yeah our biology itself and yeah and
kind of like think about this project as
like in life being kind of like
something that can be manipulated in
computer programmed
and and yeah this was very much a
reflection on real world events of
course there are things like the Human
Genome Project which aims to
um collect like as much genetic data
um from different human beings as
possible and including other creatures
there's the Earth Bank of codes
um I think it's called which is another
project which aims to
um yeah collect data and genetic mapping
of all the different like species on
Earth
um I mean and again like there's there's
so many species on Earth that are
completely beyond our reach and like
whether we haven't discovered the deep
sea for example is this hugely like
unexplored territory where we know very
little about the life forms that exist
there so um again like these these
projects seem like extremely
um
uh yeah
ambitious in like what they what they're
kind of like trying to do and maybe like
missing missing the point like
altogether that life isn't sort of meant
to be
um
you know mapped in in this kind of way
[Music]
[Applause]
thank you
[Music]
[Applause]
foreign
[Music]
[Applause]
thank you
[Music]
[Applause]
so what was just on the screen was a
flip from a film that I made
um
I was asked to make a film
responding to
um Conspiracy Theory actually is back in
2017 I think it was and it was a very
strange to find Trump had just got into
Power brexit had happened in the UK and
you know it was a big kind of like
political uproar and a quite like a
dramatic
um yeah changing like political
landscape
um and like that was really being
reflected
um you know across the media across
social networks and there was this this
is when this started
terms like Echo filter Bubbles and Echo
Chambers were coming about like talking
about social media because this idea
that your
um your world view was being reflective
back at you through social media
platforms so you as often in this kind
of
um you're often in this community like
bubble
um of your own kind of belief systems
and that being
um yeah very much
reflected back and and added to and
um so I started to get very concerned at
this kind of
premise and like the the kind of like
online arguments that were going on and
these kind of like binary kind of
politics and thinking
um
and so I yeah created this
um this film to kind of like reflect on
that
um and also like following this uh this
project I um started up a new large
scale project which was called ad Credo
the Deep belief Network and that was
really about
um thinking about how we can be
manipulated
um online and our whole world view can
be
um manipulated and changed in our very
Behavior can be
um yeah manipulated through like
algorithmic processes and manipulation
uh and control
and so I made a project that was all
about
um as I say like the construction of
belief in online networks
um and it had like a large scale
um installation and
and again like I kind of created this
speculative
um company
um as well which was kind of like meant
to reflect on
um some of the the operations that that
are happening in the world so this you
know like there's obviously lots of
companies that exist like Cambridge
analytica for example that Harvest our
data when we are using our phones when
we're online on our computers and use
that data to kind of like manipulate our
your actions our behavior and to get us
to you know buy certain things or to
believe in certain things or to vote
even in a certain way
and yeah I mean I guess like the very
admin Advent of digital media has shown
that that the world is made up of this
kind of mass of circulating
disjointed and kind of contradictory a
lot of the time information and yeah
this
Communications Network can be
manipulated
um by by online companies groups and
individual which can give rise to new
narratives and even new political
ideologies or conspiracy conspiratorials
like theories as well
and so I made this project that yeah
took the form of this queen of like
speculative Association like a
corporation
um that I created where ideologies could
be disseminated
um and used to kind of like manipulate
people and I was blending conspiracy
theories sci-fi sci-fi corporate and
religious belief systems like in sort of
woven we wave them all together in this
work so I had like a series of CGI
Talking Heads
um which were different political
figures like Trump Putin
um various different aliens at Kanye
West and uh
um
and they was all sort of talking over
each other and
talking about things that they had that
they had like kind of like said in real
life and there was this
um
I guess like there was this kind of like
hellscape and noise like created because
it was all talking over each other and
these kind of like wanting to kind of
like refresh reflect on these like
different sort of like narratives and
fragments of
um stories that were kind of like fed
over the internet and like how we
um
yeah how we can like be um
how we can be shaped by those stories
and narratives
um and I wanted yeah the work to kind of
operate by holding up I guess multiple
different viewpoints and mirrors and
reflecting different cultural sets of
belief systems and yeah to question like
the very foundations of what constitutes
our world for you
and yeah I mean as we've seen in recent
years
um popular opinion and what does
um sway us into
believing certain things or certain
narratives may not be grounded on
certain truths but based upon I guess
like the success of ideas and beliefs
across digital networks
um and this yeah so you know information
can be replicated and spread very easily
now across like across the internet and
um yeah it might not be based on like
the the truth of that story but how how
well
um you know it kind of like is received
and how many people kind of like spread
it and how it's and how it connects the
dots with other with other narratives
the the search for the Water of Life
is as great as for the alternative
oh Joey that was such an amazing
presentation
um you know it was so cool to see some
of your works and see clips from
different videos ones that I've you know
never seen before there was that one
with um the black and white grid and the
kind of ghostly shapes of the different
creatures that's a new one for me
um you know from this thing so that was
really cool to see
yeah I think that that
was Shark work
um it was called um so lucky Morpher
which is yeah basically the Latin name
for sharks um but yeah that was done
back in 2017 so yeah a little bit older
now
yeah
no
um I'm just really you know I was
talking you know we were pre-chatting
before this and I very selfishly wanted
to get the two of you together
um because I was just saying that your
your show at Spring Health Aquatic
Center uh Samuel Perez is easily one of
my top 10 favorite exhibitions of all
time I just thought it was so smart so
beautiful
um and I understand it's the same behind
the scenes as well I'm sure you say that
to every artist
I certainly don't but no I also
understand that that was the first time
that the two of you had had worked
together and I'd love to just learn a
little bit more about that show the
intention behind it um and how your
collaboration uh you know came about
yeah do you want to tell coach that I
took Julia I'm
I'm so
um the the site where the installation
was was in a disuse swimming pool so
like a Leisure Center in North London
that had been like abandoned and vacated
and sort of had been I think it had been
empty for like five years by the time we
were there so it was quite like it
wasn't like in bad shape and like really
dilapidated
um
and so I kind of had I was given access
to this space and went and saw it and
like immediately thought of Joey's work
um so we just started the conversation
from there and like figured out how we
could sort of respond to to what this I
already had to offer yeah um but yeah
maybe Joey you can talk more about that
how it came together yeah I mean like
being offered a space like that I mean
like I think we started from nothing as
well we didn't have
um any like funding in place we just you
know we just kind of like had an idea
and like was really excited about the
space itself
um and that you know in that kind of
space is like
a dream to me really it's like a like
yeah like a dishy swimming pool or a
disuse mall or you know like something
that's kind of like being dilapidated
and you know like the ceiling was like
starting to leak and stuff like that and
so you could all already imagine like I
don't know like something else like
taking over like you know I guess nature
and inverted commas like taking over the
space again so um so yeah no it was
really exciting to yeah to to I mean we
was just having a pre-chat before
actually as well and saying like that
that space I mean it's almost like for
an artist like it felt like I didn't
have to do you know that much because
the architecture and everything was
already like there it's such an amazing
space
um and I mean for me like I I very much
respond to like the architecture and the
story of a space as well and think about
the work as a kind of like an extension
of that and I don't um
I don't really like
um the kind of like classical like white
Cube Gallery space like either so it's
always kind of like working yeah against
that and kind of like creating very
immersive like environments I guess and
you know yeah creating something that
you can really like step into and yeah
be fully kind of like
part of this crazy world or something
um but yeah the work was centered around
a particular creature like the European
eel
um and I mean yeah I could probably talk
too much about the European eel um and
yeah I probably mentioned in my talk as
well there's a pre-recorded talk so I
can't remember how much I went into it
um but yeah it's about the Journey of
the European eel and
um that it travels like it's 3 000 miles
across the sea and it's a creature that
nobody
um has really witnessed
um it breed and you know like people
don't know very much about its life
cycle
um and so that's something that really
interests me in my work like that
there's you know there's such kind of
like diversity of creatures and uh
animals and plants in the world and um
you know a lot of our
uh like certain like Western Scientific
understanding and kind of like have us
believe that we know so much about the
world when in fact we still know very
little about it and very little about
the animals and plants and you know in
our kind of knowledge systems so yeah
the work was about this kind of like
speculative journey I guess of this eel
like this video installation
foreign
the European eel I mean it's in a lot of
ways it's so mundane and so commonplace
I mean you know especially in the UK
like eel pies are a traditional food and
it's something that's owned and lived
with for
centuries Millennia I don't even know
um and you know but how do we not know
these things about it you know how how
is this thing that is so commonplace and
seemingly so mundane this animal that is
all around us you know in rivers and
different bodies of water you know how
do we not know how it breathes yeah you
know it just it's kind of mind-blowing
yeah yeah I mean and I think that that
you know it's not just that particular
creature it's so many creatures I mean I
think you know
I mean uh maybe looking at like the coin
of more micro world as well like we we
don't know I think it's like less than
two percent of like the bacteria that
lives on our own bodies you know this
this so much yeah that we don't know and
um
and yeah like you were saying the eel
like I guess we think of as something
that's quite yeah banal and like quite
commonplace you know it lives they're
thinking like all over Europe
um but it is actually now considered
like very an endangered species it's on
the kind of like critical list
um and there has been
um a huge effort to try to um save this
um species
um because you know it's kind of very
important to
um obviously like the rest of the the
foods ecosystem and so forth
um but yeah it's I mean it but it's and
it's it's a creature that has like
Puzzles
um
scientists and even philosophers and
things for centuries as well like
Freud's famous when he was studying
medicine famously
um had to dissect uh I think like
thousands of eels to try to find their
like sexual organs and find eggs inside
them and he never could do this
Aristotle I think it was Aristotle that
said that eels like come from
they come kind of like spontaneously
from the muds they like they they they
they they just come alive and they just
are because he couldn't find an answer
to
um yeah again to like how they they bred
so they just kind of like spontaneously
come out came out of the earth and came
out of mud so yeah I mean I mean I find
like that
I don't know like that kind of like
point of where
science stops if you like and like kind
of like those kind of crazy other
um well stories or myths or like these
kind of like fill-in kind of things like
that we create as humans when we like
you know can't you know can't find out
what we want to know about something
really kind of intriguing as well
um yeah and I think that that's yeah
kind of what I try to do in my work is
kind of balance between myth and science
or something
um yeah actually I've got a book by the
side of me now
because I highly recommend this book
but I do
maybe we should stop talking about eels
I don't know
from the eel Farm
yeah so
um yeah I was quite lucky to be able to
travel
um I went to China I went to China and
um I was actually
I was actually supposed to be in part of
this Film Festival the screenings and
films out there and quite often in China
actually work gets censored
um and you can't show it so I ended up
that I couldn't actually show my work as
part of this festival and but actually
it was quite um it worked out quite well
because I was like okay I'm gonna have a
holiday and I'm gonna go and see my
friend uh in South Korea and so I went
there and
um
she asked me yeah she said oh we're
gonna go on this this this trip this day
um and she didn't tell me where we was
going but we visited um yeah an eel farm
and that's when I like got all of this
footage of of the eels basically sort of
like really in this kind of like compact
like Vats and they were all kind of like
rivering around each other
um and yeah that's that's I guess where
I became like really interested in like
like what were these animals like you
know and I I didn't know that this kind
of like industry existed as well where
they were being
um where they were being farmed I mean
they're not bred in captivity because
they can't breathe they haven't even
seen them breed but yeah so they so
they're caught as their as young animals
and then they're grown up in this Farm
environment where I did this filming and
then and then yet their sold as food
um and I mean we think of eels I guess
as like well maybe in England at least
where I'm from
I think Anthem is quite like a I guess
like quite a cheap food but yeah in
other places they're quite like a prized
dish yeah so isn't there like also
thinking about this kind of like economy
of this animal as well it's I think it's
like the most trafficked animal in the
world which is
um
which is insane yeah because they can
fetch really high prices so people do
catch them illegally and then they're
sold
um illegally
wow that's crazy I mean what I like it's
just so interesting how you know one
small creature can connect to so many
different cultures so many different
histories so many different ways of
moving around the world you know the
whole again the whole festival of Worlds
and protocol is about thinking through
different ways of being interconnected
thinking good things that can find and
resp and restrict us the things that we
don't know the answers that we don't
have
um and this you know this eel I didn't
even mean to you know bring up so much
about this deal but I feel like a great
metaphor you know for all of this and
such a beautiful case study of how you
know all of this works but I want to you
know switch focus a little bit and talk
some more not about the eels but about
the Abyssal Seeker project which is the
which is the project that we're showing
a gray area
um as part of new art City uh in new art
city as part of the diorama exhibition
um my colleague is going to drop the
link in the chat uh for anybody on the
live stream right now and also I drop
some links to the semelperia show both
the version
um
Aquatic Center as well as the
downloadable zip file version of
off-site project
um which is you know just a little shout
out for them because they're awesome
really great online Gallery space run by
Elliot Burns and Peter Ariola please
check them out the links in the chat but
moving back to
um you know this show and this work
Abyssal Seeker is a project that has is
so expansive you've had three solo shows
over the summer where different chapters
of the project were told
um I think it's the Abyssal Zone The
benthic Zone
um and there's one more as well
um that I the name is escaping me
um those are presented at Futura and
Prague at 17 Gallery in London and the
third one is going to be remind me Joey
uh
um so there's yeah there's there's
already been Prague London and
um
oh God it's currently in Lake Slovenia
as well um at the Ljubljana being early
and it will be in Sydney as well
um next year for the Sydney being early
um but yeah I basically
split up the project into these
different zones which was meant to
represent different zones of the of the
deep sea
um actually and like the Open Water as
well
um and yeah so each of the zones like I
guess is meant to represent like
different
um yeah ecosystems Within These
different like places
um but the focus is on
yeah this kind of like Abyssal Zone
which like was actually it's quite
cheesy but it was inspired by like
watching a Blue Planet episode actually
where there's a
um there's sort of like a lake at the
bottom of the ocean so it looks like a
lake when you when you look at it but
it's just that the water is like a lot
more saline and salty so it looks like
there's a kind of like lake at the
bottom of the ocean and
like on this particular scene uh it's
underwater footage like creatures like
swimming and out of this
um this Lake and they kind of get quite
like because it's quite toxic
um they're like they kind of like get
all of it like screwed up if they they
stay in there too long
um but I kind of thought about this this
kind of place as
a place that's like completely like
beyond our understanding really and I
mean it's a well-known metaphor I guess
that you know we know more about outer
space Maybe than we know then that's
what's at the bottom of the the ocean
um and so many of those creatures you
know every time there's this kind of
exploration to the bottom of the deep
sea you know we constantly find life
forms that yeah we've never seen before
and also life forms that
um
like live and then exist in a completely
different way than we would understand
as well I mean for example like we used
to think that everything needed to
um
live through it like using
photosynthesis and
um and to create energy in that way but
there's life forms at the bottom of the
ocean that process
um you know chemicals in a whole
different way anyway I'm going on too
much so the Abyssal
um project was like focusing like on a
group of animals that lived in the
deeper Bissell Sea and the the kind of
narrative of the project was that other
beings the other humans and other
species were trying to like get to this
uh to this place at the bottom of the
ocean
um as a kind of way of Escape I guess
and thinking about like how
in our world
um on land you know we're kind of
saturated by surveillance systems and
control and data and everything's kind
of like being
um you know we're being mapped and
processed in a way and I thought you
know like if we could
I don't know get to this late place or
not even get to this place or just kind
of like understand this place as like
our world being
not that place that can be like
categorized or tracked or anything else
using this place has that kind of
metaphor
um that was yeah that was the kind of
idea of the
of the exhibition really so yeah and
it's a kind of
uh like the main the main part of it is
a kind of like CGI film
um of this kind of like Abyssal deep sea
place with these creatures kind of
moving in and out of this space
it's a this works so I'm so if anybody
doesn't hasn't realized this already I'm
obsessed with marine biology I was a
little little kid it was my first dream
job
um and I was like you know really just
done marine biology
no yeah I think we talked about this
like why did we go to study art and we
can't do this a marine biologist like it
makes no sense
um but you know I always but it's always
something that's really spoken to me
because again it's another metaphor for
ways of thinking through like you know
there you know we have this whole crazy
world and there's parts of it that we
don't even know about that we've never
seen that nobody has seen that is
unknowable
um it is not possible for my body to go
to the bottom of the ocean
um for so many reasons
um and that really speaks to you know we
need to
how can we mix
I hate this word but how can we find
Solutions or rather than Solutions maybe
positive Pathways forward and make the
right choices when we don't even
understand how those choices are going
to impact creatures that we've never
even seen before
um and that is quite profound to me
um and you know there's so much in this
too I mean just thinking about those
creatures at the bottom of the ocean
another artist who's in the who's in the
festival Huntress will be performing on
the last day she'll be closing out the
festival
um she and I have talked so much about
this because you know in so many a lot
of the creatures at the bottom of the
ocean like for many people they Inspire
the both of us you know as as queer
people in the sense that these are
animals that survive under the most
inhospitable conditions possible
um they are in these dark dank dangerous
highly pressurized highly saline
environments and in in you know by Logic
they should not exist you know you
understand you know the you know the
what's it called the
thermophilic bacteria and all these kind
of microorganisms that make sense to me
but when you see like these big you know
uh like the the like the like wolf eels
and these really like bizarre animals
that look like something out of a sci-fi
film you know they shouldn't it's almost
like they shouldn't exist yet they
persist despite and so for me that's
always been something that has brought
to mind resilience and persistence
despite persecution or struggle you know
there are protocols in place physical
Protocols of gravity and water pressure
and you know and saline and all these
other things that
um
make it seem impossible yet despite
those constricting protocols these
animals are thriving in their own in
their own world yeah and I think that's
something I guess we already see as like
constricting because that's you know our
logic and our you know we only see that
like oh my God something can't survive
in that environment because it's not our
environment but yeah that kind of gives
you the
the possibility like there were loads of
different environments and like like you
say loads of different creatures that
thrive there it's just we need to get
out of our own kind of I don't know yeah
she you know
absolutely but how do we do that I don't
know but
there's like
that's where they live that's that's
their existence they don't know anything
else and they couldn't survive on our
like you know elsewhere yeah yeah if we
brought them up to the land they
couldn't live here isn't it as well but
yeah but I get like I like what she was
saying about the you know like the the
kind of bringing in like the queer side
of things as well and I think
maybe not only thinking it like about
hostile environments as well but like
thinking about I mean there's there's
been some
there's some you know Theory and text
writtens around this but like about
queer ecology and things like this as
well and the idea that you know nature
Nature has always been queer you know
like there is every like possibility in
every
um
talking about sexuality as well the you
know there are animals that can have
both sexes or that can change sex or
that
um
I didn't let you know like every species
of animals now I think they've proven
like have
um you know like
um
gay gay sex stake in every single
species and there is all of these yeah
weird sexual mating practices of animals
and stuff as well so like you know our
very
conservative like limited way to think
about our bodies and sex as well is like
um
you know it can be completely blown
apart when we when we look at like other
other species
absolutely and you know I was just
showing just some clips from um
we took the film piece the 3D
environment and we tried to make it
something immersive that you could move
through it's not as high resolution as
the original because we're working with
Webb and you know we wanted it to be
like I still haven't seen it
oh well yeah well you have to check it
out it looks really great
um and you know we took out some of the
creatures and have them moving through
so you can see some of the Abyssal
Seekers
um and you can just be in the underwater
cave environment
um just for just for a moment it's a
nice it's a nice Grotto to go and you
know spend some spend some time in
um
oh gosh I just there's so much I want to
talk to you guys about you know and I
think that you know what I want security
out of time I don't know maybe are out
of time but you know there's the one
final thing I wanted to talk to you both
about was the spur project that you both
are working on
um which I have just been
wowed by you guys did an online
exhibition the title is now escaping me
but I'll find it in a second and Link it
in in the chat but it was a virtual
exhibition I believe built in a Unity
environment
um that was just
so rich it was the kind of art exit it
was the kind of art exhibition that I I
dream of curating it was so immersive
and it involved so many young artists so
many emerging artists so many uh you
know you know young people just really
starting out
um and it was really inspiring to me
it's this virtual exhibition in a
fantastic 3D environment that has these
bizarre biological constructions and
artificial constructions and you know I
want to learn more about you know what
spurt is how you guys came together on
it and you know what your plans are for
for the future to close us out a little
bit
yeah so oh God I'm gonna cough
so yeah you can you can view it at it's
still online it's spur.world and then we
just simply called the um
oh my god I've got a tickly through and
the world's
um the exhibition that happens per world
so you can see it there Julia you might
have to introduce it
um I mean I think I mean where was
Joey's project so it was started
basically as a Residency program
[Music]
um where all of the artists were working
like online on this custom platform
um so I mean you were working with home
social club because basically all of we
wanted all the artists to develop like
avatars so they were like Anonymous on
the platform
so in yeah like a series of workshops
and like kind of um world building
training that happened like within that
yeah and then it basically like it
happened as well because we were you
know it happened at the start of
lockdown where we was thinking oh my God
there's this group of artists that are
going to be graduating from their
studies and they're going to have lost
the opportunity to show work
um
in the usual way and you know us guys
have
you know some some some skills some
digital skills so we'll try to you know
we'll try to help out the best that we
can and I mean and late late Julia said
like one of the things that
I guess drove me to like want to do the
project as well is like to think about
maybe like creativity
in a in a way that happens online and
some and a potential this also came from
working with on Social Club of like the
artists yeah not going in as themselves
like creating these avatars and pseudo
identities and sort of I guess like I
mean they were very young artists but
like losing
their egos I guess and like thinking
about like what it could mean to create
without like their past self and their
past ego and create a narrative through
a different character so yeah at the
back end we had like a very kind of like
social platform where people could like
write messages to each other share
images
um like there was a screening room and
things like that but create a world and
create a narrative together and they
yeah there was all these different
characters so this really rich
organism this thing came together and
then um and then they decided to do this
yeah like this virtual world
um at the end of this kind of like
intensive six months that we had um
together
um and yeah we visited different online
worlds like we visited like really old
spaces like second life and um
uh you know did lots of practical
workshops as well like learning
different digital tools
um yeah but it was it was like really a
place to yeah to bring people together
and to think like
what can we do like outside of the kind
of like Arts education
um
structure I guess as well that that
could kind of push things online
yeah and the exhibition was all of them
like developing like the subconscious
worlds of their avatars basically so
like when you go on the website each of
the artists has like
a card that you can flip over and then
enter into their Unity World directly
and so they all like were just amazing
in terms of the scope of like what they
were able to learn and and the outcomes
that they were able to develop like we
had such an amazing yeah super
incredible I mean and it was just done
through an open call as well of
graduating artists and lots of them
didn't well most of the group didn't
know each other there was a couple that
knew each other but
you know now it's great like they they
have this supportive Network that
they've got together and they're all
great friends and we can see them you
know helping each other on their
different projects and that's I think
that that's the
the the greatest thing you know like to
get out of it that you know you can kind
of create this you know like well just
kind of like put seeds into starting
like something and then they you know
they built it and they run with it but
you know just plant a few seeds and then
you know it's really grown so yeah and
we're hoping to do it again in the
future
um I actually wasn't successful in fun
getting funding for it I just found out
that I couldn't get funding but I think
like the project also probably needs to
adapt as well because it was very much a
response to what was happening at the
time and covered and was all online and
perhaps it needs to now yeah
evolve again and um yeah probably like
camps in the forest in real life instead
of like camping out in Second Life
well camping on Second Life is cool we
love that here too
um and you know what a fabulous project
you know if you hear that audience
members and you want to support spur
please get in touch with them um because
it's a really fabulous program that is
doing a lot For Young Artists around the
world
um and I'm deeply inspired by it we are
so out of time
um I want to read really quickly we got
a comment from Sammy vieler Sammy is the
architect for the exhibition in new art
city
um and you know a just a fabulous
fabulous person
um and she writes in the CH she uh uh oh
one second I just lost it I just dropped
it oh Sammy wrote in the chat I when we
were talking about you know the
relationship between queerness and
animals into the ocean and Sammy writes
I've heard it called pernicious
anthropocentrism it's challenging for
humans to empathize with non-human
intelligences because we have a habit of
anthropomorphizing them in the same way
CIS people try to empathize with me as a
trans person me being Sammy by trying to
imagine what it was like if they wanted
to transition themselves
um and I think that's a that's an
interesting that's a that's a point for
thought for us to to leave on I think
you know reimagining our
anthropocentrism in a different way
um and you know not centering the human
in yeah yeah you know or one of the big
ways to get out of ourselves somehow
like how can we find tools to do that
yeah I'm very interested in that
or how can we shapeshift or something
exactly exactly
um oh gosh we're so out of time we gotta
move on uh you don't know it's all good
thank you so much thank you so much